#summary Design Brief from Will Pearson

= Introduction =

This document was created by Joel Gethin Lewis, cutting and pasting from Will Pearson's original document.

= Details =

==Attending==
  * Joel Gethin Lewis
  * Marek Bareza 
  * Karsten Schmidt from Wednesday to Friday
  * Joey Scully
  * Tom Schofield
  * Will Pearson
  * Mick Grierson (Monday afternoon; Maximilian library demonstration)
  * Jean-Baptiste Thiebaut (some of week – from Queen Marys University)

==Purpose==

To create 4/5+ prototypes of responsive/reactive software which move away from standard mouse control, and use gestural and other triggers. To designed as an ‘ecology’ of pieces, showing progression. To show how, with development, teachers might be able to add in content of their own to personalize the software.
Inspired by taking the stage and experiencing Messa di Voce when it showed in London a few years back!

==Destination==

Tuke School in Peckham, who move into a new build next year, each room equipped with whiteboards. Sound and Music will also host the prototypes online and offer technical support for other schools wishing to download and use.

Discussion with Sound and Music and Tuke School:

  * Really happy to see what emerges, the focus from the funders is sonic arts practice related, so really keen to see what comes out with that in mind
  * Try and minimize possibility to lose focus- don’t have control buttons for shutting down windows and closing programs
  * Interested to know how software might be used at home and also at school, so that parents and carers have a window into the creative world
  * How can visual/auditory sequences (animated shapes for instance) draw you into making a creative response, say, drawing with your finger
  * How can a teacher personalize a piece of software over time – changing the collection of images, or sounds used?

Areas of specific interest:

  # Can there be a program where the teacher/parent remotely interacts with the software using a Tuio controller (eg  iphone) in real time. How else could teachers bring in their creativity
  # Can two classes in two separate classrooms, or in two separate schools, work over a network on a creative piece, say, producing visuals in real time in response to music, or composing music in real time?
  # How could visualizations and responsive environment pieces react to real world data? Showing parsed data as mountains or terrain? Facts that might be useful for lessons as visualizations, for instance, frequencies of most common insects represented as animated caterpillar?
  # What generative music pieces might be created… or environments which evolve and change over time so student does not get bored with them

==Outcomes==

4/5 prototypes of software pieces which can be trialled with groups from Tuke School to get design input. Further fundraising needed to turn prototypes into fully distributable and supported pieces.
SMARTlab involved in working with Sound and Music to bring research interest to the user testing in context of wider inclusive design practice.

==Timetable and locations==

===Monday 26th April===

We’ll be at Goldsmiths Digital Design Studios, Ben Pimlott Building, all day, see: http://www.gold.ac.uk/gds/ for more information.
The studios are on the Goldsmiths New Cross campus, travel to either New Cross or New Cross Gate stations.

10am – 12pm 
Discussion: exploring user needs, setting the scenario.
Those with experience of working with pupils with complex needs, and a range of additional learning needs, to share evidence and experience.
Show and tell: Share existing ideas and prototypes that are being brought to the table, look for similarities and cross over
12pm-1pm lunch
1pm till end of day
Dr Mick Grierson will share Maximilian with us, recently built into an oF addon, showing examples and going through ‘step through’ examples of making it work, to familiarize the group with the addon

===Tuesday 27th April===

We’ll be at SMARTlab Digital Media Institute, Magiclab, in the Knowledge Dock building on the Docklands Campus. To reach the site, you need to travel east on the DLR from central London, ensuring that you are on the Beckton bound service (you may need to change at Canning Town). Alight at Cyprus, walk over the footbridge onto the campus, and bear right. You can find a map shpwing the building location here http://www.uel.ac.uk/campuses/docklands_map.htm
any problems, call Will on 07866 361361 and I’ll come to meet you. The building is a five minute walk from alighting. SMARTlab is on the first floor, clearly signposted

AM: ideas generation, collaboration options, prototyping ideas
PM: prototyping

===Wednesday 28th April===

SMARTlab as above, prototyping

===Thursday 29th April===

SMARTlab as above, prototyping

===Friday 30th April===

SMARTlab as above, prototyping, wrap up and planning next steps
